>All humans have emotional lives that are deeply rooted in biology, but humans also have the ability to choose how,  when,  where,  and  why  to  suppress  (not  to  eliminate),  to  emphasize,  and  to express emotions as ways of communicating and connecting with the broader world.
>One such alternative is the work of Barbara Rosenwein (2006, 2015) who conducted research on societies in  premodern  Europe  to  develop  the  idea  of  emotional  communities.  Emotional communities  are  social  communities  that  share,  de!ne,  tolerate,  and  deplore  par-ticular emotional expressions.

I found these two bits from the Baxter reading worth noting down because it really is true that usually in history we either aren't concerned with emotional/mental states at all or we don't generally treat them the same as modern emotional/mental state today.

>For example, medieval children were often described as being covered in dirt, which was  interpreted  a  sign  of  neglect.  Instead,  the  practice  re"ected  a  common  belief that children would be protected against evil spirits and demons by the layering of earth  on  their  skin  (Catalano 2015).  Dirty  children  weren’t  unloved  or  neglected; their parents were protecting them.

I'm really interested whenever I come accross things like superstitions that, while they may not be literally true, do actually work in some way: I have occasionally heard the theory that exposing your child to bacteria and germs can actually help them develop better immune systems (take this article for example https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2017/07/16/537075018/dirt-is-good-why-kids-need-exposure-to-germs). Substituting demons for diseases then, perhaps this superstition does hold ground!

>Are there differences in who gets commemorated, and how?

I have three things to say w.r.t. this:
First, I found it a quite odd how most of monuments at the cemetery I went to (river road manotick) were dated mid-19th to early-20th century, with the latest outlier being dated 1986 - despite the fact that it was relatively sparcely populated and had plenty of room for more stones. It's maintained by the city and has several different family names present, which leads me to believe its not private cemetery. The fact that there were so few post-WWII commemorations makes me wonder where the direct decendants of those individuals and their families are now buried.
Secondly, I found many 'wife of' stones, that is, stones where the husband's name is written first and then the wife's name is displayed second with the 'wife of X' qualifier underneath. Obviously, it is very common and simply the convention of the times, which I'm sure is still present on a lot of modern stones, but it nontheless appears as an indicator of some level of patriarchical structure. (Tangent: my modern 2020 emoji-minded brain suggests that a more egalitarian (and fun) way to display marital relationships on grave markers could be to use a symbol like a heart between the names of two spouses.)
Finally, I found plenty of these couple stones had the names of children on them sometimes as well (usually on a second or third face). The ages of these children were always quite young, many under a year. Not all the children were on their own though, some had their own stones. Considering the ones who were commemorated on the same stone as their parents, I begin to wonder if they had their own stones before that were removed when the parent's stone went up or if they were just remembered by the family in the intervening time. (Tangent/note-to-self: I actually have a sister who passed away less than a year old before my own birth, and I don't know if there is any monument to her... I'll have to remember to ask my parents that some time.) I think that the reason all the children recorded on their parent's stones are so young is clearly because all the children who survived into adulthood and started their own families went off and got family plots of their own - but this was not always the case. I wonder what considerations are made when a family is deciding whether to begin a new plot or to bury next to the older generation... (Tangent: now that I think about it, I may have to make a similar decision some day as my grandfather has a plot in rural PEI (close to where he grew up), but my parents were both born and grew up in Montreal, and furthermore I grew up here in Ottawa.)

>Were there aspects of the work that affected you emotionally? Why?

I'm not sure I can say I was especially emotionally effected, but I will say that after I found out that I was not expected to enter all 21 stones at the cemetery, I felt it was most urgent to record and also to preserve the older stones and the ones that were already begining to wither with time. Recording the stones for the singular purpose of archaeological data I think is reasonable enough, but is it right for me to speak of a desire to preserve them? I mean I certainly don't have any direct sentimental attachment to them... but maybe someone else does? Finding these stones neglected, weathered into poor condition, and with illegible inscriptions, makes that possibility seem less likely because surely if someone cared *about* these monuments they would care *for* these monumnets... So that makes me conclude that maybe there is no real reason to desire to preserve them: these old stones have already served their purpose in full. I'm sure a rotating cast of people visited them throughout the years for a couple generations but eventually stopped coming. The fact that they have not been restored might very well be evidence that they don't need to be restored. Its fine to wish to be remembered once we are gone, but we can only expect so much: even the memory of us must fade one day, and perhaps we should leave these stones to fade with them.

>Do the 3d models have an affective aura? Why or why not?

Not especially, though I'm not sure what aura is. Something that definitly takes away from the model is the little artifacts and imperfections. For my 3D model I chose to do the plaque outside of the Moodie cemetery because I thought that, being outside the fence of the cemetery, it might be overlooked. Furthermore, it does more to tell a story about the Moodie family than any individual gravestone could. I tried the regard3D process a couple times to get different results and the most important feature for me was that the text of the plaque would be easy to see.

>In what ways does mapping the graveyard give you authority and power? 

Creating a map sets up peoeples expectations before they visit a location, or sometimes determines whether they will visit that location in the first place. They are abstract representations of the world, which means that much nuance must be removed. As a map-making you are in charge of removing that nuance and deciding whats visible and whats not visible. In the case of mapping a graveyard, it is the same. All I can say is that it's important to be accurate and to make sure to get everything --> when I went to the graveyard last week I made sure to print out 20 code sheets because I could count 15 stones on the satalite image and wanted to be safe incase anything new was added since that image was taken. Once I got there I found there were actually 21 stones, 6 of them were hidden under trees from the satalite...
