week 3 notes

my model is uploaded here --> https://p3d.in/gRxqZ --> the texture was automatically downsized, so it looks a bit off
I also uploaded the obj and mtl to github, I also downsized the texture so I could upload it on github

I used the moodie plaque stone outside of the cemetery because I thought it would be important to preserve as it tells a story about the whole family and it might be otherwise ignored

podcast:

    "recording the stones takes a long time" --> yes
    this week --> 3d models of stones
    
    Bill Caraher:
        -he works in Cyprus
        -writing a book on NA archaerology (including atari cartridges lol)
        -big computer guy --> thinks a lot about digital workflows
        -all about digital tools for archaeology
        -theres too much going on now in digital archaeology that it cannot be considered one single thing
        -digital tools are forcing us to ask new ethical questions --> this observation reminds me of Zizek on bioethics
            --ownership and digital copies?
            --the digital and colonial relationships?
            --do I have to keep a record of all my emails?
            --is open access good? does it reinforce cultural elite standards?
            --private profit and public good --> corporations behind everyday technology? leveraging of efficiency for profit?
        -theres a lot of fetishization of big names in tech innovation (like elon), but theres so much development happening through the work of everyday people, often propping up those big names
        -digital archaeology is bringing up lots of questions about lots of standard things that havent been questioned in a long time (writing in notebooks, drawing pictures)
        
Negotiating memory: funerary commemoration associal change in emancipation-era Barbados
https://digiarch.netlify.app/data/cook2018.pdf

    how does situating stones in broader historical contexts bring new understandings to light?
    how does this article relate to the other article on the same research from last week?
    As critical players in the creation and negotiation of identity, community, and power,monuments were actively used, rewritten, created and destroyed–and this active process of social change persisted during the period of abolition and emancipation thatredefined Barbadian religious communities in the nineteenth century. 
    This research argues that by tracing changing spectrums of invisibility and visi-bility, anomalies, and the micro- and macro-scalar contexts of commemoration, it is possibleto decolonize cemetery studies and contribute new histories of struggle, resilience, andtransformation of communities in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
    Picturing Barbados as that‘vast burial ground’(Handler1999, 13) owes a great deal to theBritish-Barbadian tradition of barring the majority of the population, enslaved Africans andAfrican-descendants, from Anglican churches, and therefore excluding the dead from theprimary British burial grounds. 
    The majority of these deaths would have been fol-lowed by interment on slave burial grounds, generally located close to slave villages onplantations.
    "being once a Christian, he could no more account him a Slave, and so lose the hold they had ofthem as Slaves, by making them Christians; and by that means should open such a gap, as allthe Planters in the Island would curse him." - quote from Lignon
    Baptism of enslaved and freed3people became more common in Barbados in the earlynineteenth century; nevertheless, relatively few African-Barbadians were buried in theburial grounds attached to Anglican churches or chapels. 
    Given the poverty, instability, and persecution that most enslaved and‘freed’individ-uals faced during this period, it is unsurprising that few commemorative monumentscan be confidently associated with them. 
    The first monuments erected to commemor-ate black individuals in traditionally white contexts would not have gone unnoticed inthe relatively small congregations of pre-emancipation Barbados; these stones cannot,therefore, be understood separate from the statement they would have made andtheir long-term legacies for the ways in which Barbadian race relations developed. Afocus on African-Barbadian families actively using monuments in Anglican churchyardsto negotiate their identity and place within colonial society highlights the potential fornew application of commemorative and memory studies in the Caribbean, and thisperiod of history more broadly.
    Commemorative practices, which not only reflect but were used strategically to con-struct and negotiate identities, relationships, and experiences in the colonial era,provide the opportunity to explore the ways in which people in Barbados reactedand contributed to transformations in social structures, race, and mobility, particularlyin the period following emancipation. 
     The temporal breadth of this study, from themiddle of the seventeenth century through to the middle of the twentieth century wascritical to framing the cultural context in which African-Barbadians began commemoratingtheir dead in Anglican churchyards before emancipation, and the ways in which traditionswere transformed after emancipation as black communities fought for and achievedgreater rights, freedoms, and equalities.
     Despite the limited number of black monuments during this period, commemorationalmost exclusively represents free women and/or their children, possibly underlining the role of relationships with white males (as companions and fathers of children) in acces-sing this type of material culture and convincing originally reluctant church leaders forapproval. 
     Christianity and the Anglican Church, previously a marker of‘whiteness’(Twine and Gal-lagher2014), were also transformed by emancipation. 
     During and following emancipation, Christian teaching was deemed critical topreparing the African-Barbadian population to be freed persons in a British colony, particu-larly by instilling morality as well as skills like basic literacy. Parish church populations andbaptism rates increased drastically (Figure 3). 
     Conversion also often created opportunities togain positions of power and respect within the community through participation, network-ing, and occasionally employment as wardens, maintenance workers, and administration.While parts of Christianity were adopted, where deemed useful, less appealing aspectsthat clashed with existing cultural practices were often resisted, including family structuresand views of polygamy and illegitimacy, and the Sabbath (and the resulting ban on Sundaymarkets and dances). Moreover, relative to many Caribbean and American contexts, the Bar-badian Anglican church remained largely unchanged by African culture post-emancipation,due to a history of intensive planter control of religion, the Anglican church, and the regu-lation of slavery (Erskine2014, 153).
     The global, revolutionary social, economic, and political changes in the twentieth centuryare, in many ways an extension or continuation of previous memory practices and traditionsthat are rarely included in archaeologies and histories of cemeteries. 
     the transformations of infrastructure, political structures,and economy in Barbados accompanying independence from the British Empire had dra-matic implications for the experiences of every social group on the island. 
     Later in the twentieth century, as the economy shifted from its traditionalreliance on sugar to tourism, monuments were further re-written and modified throughnew commemoration of the long dead to create historical narratives that would be of interestto visitors. 
    After nearly 200 years of segregated burial of British- andAfrican-Barbadian communities, the push towards abolishing the slave trade, and thenthe institution of slavery altogether, increased the rates of religious conversion and edu-cation for African-Barbadians, redefining memory practices and uses of material culturein commemorating the dead. The impact of black monuments in previously exclusivelywhite landscapes, the ways in which black families established and solidified traditionsthroughout the nineteenth century, and the modification of those material records intwentieth and twenty-first century heritage practice are critical to understandingmemory, tradition, and social identity in Barbadian history.
    This archaeological case study of colonial Barbados, and the islanders’relationships to religion, race and power, moves away from emphasizing plantationslave cemeteries in African-Barbadian funerary practice to recognize alternative contextsthat were critical to the processes through which memories, social structures, and land-scapes were constructed and resisted. 
    Reflecting on scholarship, the results of this research challenge our preconceivednotions of the contexts and methodologies that will decolonize Atlantic studies by recog-nizing and addressing more diverse and complex voices, narratives, and experiences. 
    
The Burial Space Research Database (Data Paper)
https://intarch.ac.uk/journal/issue55/3/index.html

    The structure and form of the database requires groups to use a standardised recording methodology and vocabulary, meaning that datasets from different surveys are interoperable, allowing connections and comparisons to be made within and between local research projects. While burial space research is dominated by data on people and inscriptions, the database is also designed to accommodate archaeological approaches to recording that include detailed descriptions of the material form of monuments. A sophisticated search interface allows users to interrogate the archived datasets using a variety of different criteria, potentially revealing previously unrecognised temporal and spatial trends in the post-medieval history of commemoration.
    Burial spaces are important heritage assets, of interest to a wide variety of stakeholders, but they are often an overlooked aspect of local archaeology. In particular, they are of high symbolic, emotional and cultural value to local communities, as windows on local and family histories. This high level of interest and attachment has been partly facilitated by the increasing use of permanent stone memorials from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries onwards, which led to a breakdown in the cyclical re-use of burial spaces. Meanwhile over the past 150 years or so, the growing popularity of cremations has meant that use of burial space has declined (cf. The Cremation Society of Great Britain 2014; Ministry of Justice 2007), leading to the heritagization of such spaces: burial spaces are interesting because they are old; they shed light on family history, social history, histories of places, changes in religious practice and attitudes towards death (Mytum 2000; Tarlow 1999). 
    One of the challenges around developing a standardised methodology for graveyard recording has been to refine a vocabulary for use by people that have no background in archaeology, architecture or masonry. The easiest way to do this is to focus not on the words, but on what memorials and features look like, and the guidance for identifying memorial types includes a significant number of line drawing images. 
    users might ask when commemoration started, and how its popularity changed over time (cf. Mytum 2002, Tarlow 1998), and consider how changes in the frequency of burials at one site might reflect new sites opening or changes in funerary practice, as indicated by the growing practice of cremation. 
    By acting as a central repository for burial space research, including individual people commemorated, the database also has the potential to become a powerful tool for genealogical and family history studies, drawing together disparate records in one place and making them freely available. By linking named, known individuals with details of their memorialisation, studies can also explore how identities, both familial and individual, have been expressed in different commemorative settings. Of course, particularly exciting for archaeologists and historians alike is the possibility that patterning in attitudes towards death and experiences of bereavement might reflect and reinforce other wider societal trends, as experienced for example in the transition to modernity, or the development of a capitalist market economy, shedding new light on the particularity (or generality) of these phenomena.
    For those wishing to undertake their own survey, or to find out how to submit an existing dataset to the database, please see the guidance at https://debs.ac.uk/
this project is very cool!^

Emotional Practice andEmotional Archaeology
https://digiarch.netlify.app/data/Baxter_chp_Archaeologies_of_the_Heart.pdf

    pay attention to:
        -archaeology is about people, pay attention to how people react to things
        -baxter weaves her personal story into her work
        -how does the archaeology of emotion tie into digital archaeology
    A heart-centered archaeology is one that allows us to connect our whole selves to our practice (Supernant and Lyons, Chap. 1, this volume), reminds us that “good” research does not have to be detached, and reinforces an idea recently asserted by Bader and Malhi (2019:1–2) that “personal connectedness can strengthen, not hold back (my) research.” 
    I was trained in a strong tradition of materialist, scienti!c American archaeology during a period of post-processual critique, which in hindsight had many of the people teaching me doubling  down  on  the  “right  way”  to  do  and  think  about  archaeology  in  light  of these new theoretical ideas. I learned that the tangible, visible remains of people’s behavior  that  comprised  the  material  world  could  be  decoupled  from  the  cultural “epiphenomena”  that  resided  in  people’s  heads. This  convenient  dualism  allowed archaeology to use scienti!c approaches to reveal the practices of daily life, struggle a bit with the social relationships that informed those practices, and largely discount the  richly  complicated  intangible  culture  of  human  existence  as  unknowable  or irrelevant to archaeological pursuits. 
    Children  weren’t  considered  signi!cant  in  the economic and social lives of their communities or as part of the cosmological and emotional  worlds  of  those  in  the  past,  and  this  sensibility  kept  children  virtually absent from archaeological inquiry for generations. 
    There is a comfortable recognition that children are integral to the economic and social worlds of adults in contemporary America and that  they  have  been  so  since  the  advent  of  capitalism  (Jacobson 2008;  Matthews 2010; Zelizer 1994).
    While it is obviously unreal-istic to suggest all societies viewed, treated, and valued children as we do today, the lack of nuance in this past/present divide has always been striking, and I have always found it uncomfortable. 
    Navigating emotional spaces in archaeology is not new, but it also does not have a long history in the discipline (Fleisher and Norman 2016). 
    Fleisher  and Norman (2016: 3) noted that archaeologists have tended to ascribe emotion to popu-lations in the past in an ad hoc fashion, most particularly emotions of anxiety and stress  when  archaeologically  visible  environmental  conditions  or  social  circum-stances, such as warfare, create signi!cant disruption and change to normal patterns of living. A more systematic interest in the emotional lives of people in the past is emerging in both archaeology (Fleisher and Norman 2016; Tarlow 2012) and his-tory (e.g., Plamper 2017; Rosenwein 2015) and is resulting in deeper theoretical and methodological  considerations  of  how  scholars  can  bridge  the  emotional  divide between past and present without projecting contemporary emotional sensibilities into the past.
    Archaeological interests in emotion are often tied to broader conversations about the human experi-ence and/or the need for archaeology to engage broadly with the intangible aspects of human experiences and how they articulate with the material world (Biagetti and Lugli 2016; Fleisher and Norman 2016; Harris and Sørensen 2010; Hublin 2009).
    All humans have emotional lives that are deeply rooted in biology, but humans also have the ability to choose how,  when,  where,  and  why  to  suppress  (not  to  eliminate),  to  emphasize,  and  to express emotions as ways of communicating and connecting with the broader world. 
    Archaeological interests in emotion do not rest as much with the individual as they  do  with  groups  of  people  who  shared  emotional  sensibilities.  Theories  that address individual relationships to emotion and those that equate emotional states, expressions, or forms to entire cultures are not as helpful as ideas about emotion that have scalar possibilities (Fleisher and Norman 2016:7–8). 
    One such alternative is the work of Barbara Rosenwein (2006, 2015) who conducted research on societies in  premodern  Europe  to  develop  the  idea  of  emotional  communities.  Emotional communities  are  social  communities  that  share,  de!ne,  tolerate,  and  deplore  par-ticular emotional expressions. 
    In  their  introduction  to The  Archaeology  of  Anxiety,  Fleisher  and  Norman (2016:9–10) suggest aspects of the archaeological record where emotions may be more  accessible  than  others.  These  include  “evocative  spaces,”  which  through design, character, and/or use elicit emotional experiences of place. Another is ritual performance where actors are calling emotional states into consciousness as a part of a ritualized activity or event. These types of contexts are archaeologically acces-sible through the material record and can be tied to ideas of emotional communities who spent time in particular spaces and participated in certain ritual performances. 
    I looked at how different communities in Chicago chose to commemorate children at a  time  of  major  population  in"ux  from  the  United  States  and  abroad. The  impor-tance of children for establishing a family in a new place paired with high infant and childhood mortality was a challenge to families socially and economically. At the same time, the death of a child also afforded families an opportunity to stake their claim in a new city and often country as they literally and symbolically put family blood into the soil. During the course of this work, I focused my attention on the way children were treated as research subjects by different disciplines (Baxter 2013) and embarked on a small project to address how children were taught to think about death and dying in a period of high infant and child mortality (Baxter 2019b).
    On the surface, the rationale  for  these  cemeteries  was  one  of  hygiene. The  movement  of  people  into urban  areas  resulted  in  overcrowded  city  cemeteries  and  church  graveyards  that were located in congested city centers. The presence of the dead so close to the liv-ing was considered a contributor to the disease outbreaks that plagued urban populations.
    These cemeteries were not only located outside of the city they served but were surrounded by walls and accessed  through  a  single,  gated  entrance  creating  a  sense  visitors  were  stepping into  a  special,  separate  world.  Inside  were  a  series  of  prescribed  pathways  that twisted and turned taking visitors through carefully designed “natural” landscapes with hills, trees, lakes, and beautiful vistas, all designed to transport newly urban-ized populations to a place where they could peacefully contemplate god and nature (Beder 1974). This landscape design masked the primary function of the landscape, as a place to house the dead, and emphasized its suitability for visitation by the liv-ing (Darnall 1983). Visitation, picnicking, promenading, and socializing in cemeter-ies became common practice (Baxter 2019b), and highly symbolic iconography and carefully chosen words and phrases on tombstones allowed people to read messages of  sentiment,  piety,  civic  duty,  and  bereavement  as  they  spent  leisure  time  in  the cemetery.  
    For the !rst time, it was possible to pre-purchase and design a family plot that would display the wealth and status of that family to visitors (Fenza 1989). 
    Ethnic communities, church congregations, wealthy elites,  and  working-class  citizens  could  all  determine  their  !nal  neighborhood before they died, thereby replicating the social order for eternity. 
    Children became particularly potent symbols of home and family life during this time of upheaval and social change (Baxter 2015b, 2019a; Little etal. 1992:14), and their  grave  markers  re"ect  this  through  designs  conveying  innocence,  purity,  and home  (Snyder 1992)  (Figs.9.2  and 9.3).  Messages  expressed  through  headstone design were reinforced by children’s epitaphs (Smith 1987) and consolation litera-ture, which was a popular genre for parents at a time of high infant and child mortal-ity (Baxter 2019b; Douglas 1975).
    Rural garden cemeteries were a part of a larger movement designed to beautify and celebrate death in nineteenth-century America. Death was embraced as a part of living culture, and elaborate spaces, rituals, and language speci!cally to express emotions of loss  and  suffering  when  a  loved  one  died  were  considered  essential  elements  of mourning and commemoration. The “beauti!cation of death” movement included the preservation and decoration of corpses to prolong a “lifelike” appearance, the photog-raphy of deceased family members in family portraits alongside the living, the perfor-mance  of  detailed  rituals,  and  the  elaboration  of  mortuary  monuments  that  denied death through euphemisms of sleep, rest, and continuity with the living in images and epitaphs (Baxter 2013, 2015b, 2019b; LeeDecker 2009) (Figs.9.2 and 9.3). 
    "When excavating a skeleton, many archaeologists experience some kind of emotional response such as fear, guilt, or reverence, but when confronted only with the biological fact of bones, grief is not a common response. However, conducting research in a graveyard presents one not only  with  the  facts  of  a  death,  but  with  enough  information  to  build  a  history,  to  become acquainted with something of the individual, their name, age, partner, parents, and children. Moreover, the existence of the monument itself, erected by a person or persons who experi-enced their loss is testimony to bereavement. It is hard to remain unaffected when one is con-fronted with the often explicit evidence of somebody else’s sentiment." - Sarah Tarlow
    In 1850, more than 1in 4 children born did not live to see their !rst birthday. By 1900, that rate had declined to approximately 1in 5, but 30% of deaths in America were still people under age 18 (Baxter 2019a, b). By compari-son,  less  than  1%  of  American  children  die  as  infants  today,  and  only  1.4%  of recorded deaths is people under the age of 18
    In his foundational work, Centuries of Childhood, Philippe Aries (1973)  argued  that  parents  in  Medieval  Europe  were  not  emotionally  invested  in their children, did not offer them high levels of care, and saw childhood as some-thing that was to be hastened rather than indulged. 
    Many people still connect back to this early work and equate high infant and child mortality with a lack of parental investment, but subsequent schol-arship has largely discredited this point of view.
    **More recent scholarship has critiqued this interpretation of parent-child relation-ships as a projection of modern ideals of parental love and care into the past, the use of selective data, and an absence of appropriate historical context (Catalano 2015). For example, medieval children were often described as being covered in dirt, which was  interpreted  a  sign  of  neglect.  Instead,  the  practice  re"ected  a  common  belief that children would be protected against evil spirits and demons by the layering of earth  on  their  skin  (Catalano 2015).  Dirty  children  weren’t  unloved  or  neglected; their parents were protecting them. Similarly, seventeenth-Century Puritan children were  denied  toys  and  dressed  as  miniature  adults  because  adults  considered  the animalistic  behaviors  of  babbling  and  crawling  to  be  a  danger  to  a  child’s  mortal soul (Calvert 1992). Children were inchoate adults who needed to appear and act human  as  soon  as  possible,  and  parental  efforts  to  hasten  adulthood  were  acts  of love and concern. An ample documentary record left by the Puritans illustrates just how  much  concern  adults  had  for  the  young  people  who  were  to  be  their  future (Chudacoff 2007).**
    Other scholars have presented evidence that high infant and child mortality actu-ally  increases  parental  anxiety  over  the  death  of  children  (Pollock 1983)  and  that parental  emotions  surrounding  the  deaths  of  children  do  not  have  to  be  elaborate expressions of grief to re"ect genuine care and concern (Catalano 2015). Perhaps the most famous ethnographic study of parental emotion and the deaths of children is Nancy Scheper-Hughes’ (1989) Death Without Weeping. Mothers in Brazil who were continuously birthing and losing children practiced a form of child neglect that hastened the deaths of children who were perceived to be too weak to survive. Their emotional community was one that sublimated grief and sadness at the loss of chil-dren as a way of coping with frequent child death. A careful reading of this work, however, does not indicate that these mothers were devoid of emotion. Rather than grief, more subtle expressions of care and pity were common, and other more overt and  elaborated  emotions  were  expressed  **elsewhere**  in  their  lives  (Catalano 2015, and see Niedenthal and Ric 2017).
    The ability to invest in children in life and death was largely determined by the economic standing of the household. Alongside these elaborate monuments for chil-dren  of  more  wealthy  families  were  cultural  practices  such  as  baby  farming  that allowed parents to place children in the care of individuals who would neglect the child until they were dead (Behlmer 1982). 
    In  the  nineteenth  century,  America  was  becoming  increasingly secular, and while religious sentiments of God reclaiming a chosen innocent were not  uncommon,  invoking  a  child’s  place  in  the  family  was  a  way  to  make  a  very brief life meaningful and help make the loss more comprehensible (Baxter 2019b). 
    An elaborate and extended mourning culture coevolved with modernity as an effective state juxtaposed with progressive, mechanical time. Grieving allowed people to step out of the structured time of their daily lives and instead to create a temporal space aligned with a human dimension, one that was collective, repetitive, and re"ective (Luciano 2009). The beauti!cation of death movement created guidelines for families to engage in prolonged rituals of grieving that replicated ideas of time present in a pre-industrial world.
    While we know a gravestone may not represent “real” attitudes toward a deceased child and instead may re"ect idealized and manipulated identities in a symbolic context, the most certain interpretation of a headstone is as an expression of attachment, loss, and grief (Haveman 1999:282, Tarlow 2000). Elaborate monuments and memorials (Fig.9.2) are not unnecessary to express grief and loss as, with just a few words, mourners could convey parental investment in an infant or child. The presence of very small stones that simply say “baby” or “infant” has been identi!ed as evidence for  parental  detachment  but  simultaneously  illustrates  a  desire  to  express  to  the world that a short life happened and that the family saw that life as worth remember-ing (Haveman 1999; Rainville 1999: 572). At the same time, even a few words, like “little guy” or “our darling,” ef!ciently illustrate attachment and sentiment on the part of parents and the importance of the individual in the family fold (Fig.9.3).
    For those of use trained within the legacy of a scienti!c archaeology, a quest for certainty and objectivity limited the kinds of questions asked and the types of analy-ses considered valid, feasible, and possible in our !eld. Movement away from this type  of  archaeology  has  many  causes,  but  I  believe  underlying  many  theoretical developments  in  the  !eld  is  the  ongoing  realization  by  archaeologists  that  their archaeological  interpretations  in  the  past  have  only  limited  relationships  to  their own human experiences in the present.
    For those of use trained within the legacy of a scienti!c archaeology, a quest for certainty and objectivity limited the kinds of questions asked and the types of analy-ses considered valid, feasible, and possible in our !eld. Movement away from this type  of  archaeology  has  many  causes,  but  I  believe  underlying  many  theoretical developments  in  the  !eld  is  the  ongoing  realization  by  archaeologists  that  their archaeological  interpretations  in  the  past  have  only  limited  relationships  to  their own human experiences in the present
    










